>> Brian Holt: Before we spin wheels
any further, let's just go build it and
then you can kind of see
what I'm talking about.
If you have not cloned the MCP
issue tracker, please do so
I had you do it at the beginning of the
course and then let's go into MCP here.
So I have it on my desktop.
So I'm going to open that
MCP issue tracker here and
I'm going to open that in VS code.
>> Brian Holt: So, close that.
Just a quick lay of the land here.
This is kind of laid out like
a model repo where I have
a bunch of commands that run things
in various different folders.
There's a backend directory
that runs Fastify.
Okay, so it is Fastify,
which is just an express style API server.
There's a front end and
I think this is just straight up react.
I don't think I have anything like next or
anything fancy in here.
React, react-dom,
some other stuff, tailwind.
This is definitely vibe coded
cuz it felt like it was fitting
with the course, right?
So as a good vibe coder,
I'm taking no responsibility for
any of the code in here.
If it's broken,
it's the agent's fault, [LAUGH].
Then we have an MCP directory.
I have left the solutions in here,
so if you get lost or
anything like that, by all means feel
free to just go ahead and use those.
But I'm going to create
a new directory in here and
we're going to code it
from scratch together.
New folder and we'll call it my MCP or
something like that.
Okay, and
then we're going to go into my MCP.
We're gonna say npin init -y and
we're gonna install a few things in here.
We're gonna npm install
@modelcontextprotocol/sdk@1.16 and
zod@3.25.76.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, you should get some
packages with that.
And then here in my MCP I'm just
going to create a new file here.
We're gonna call it like main or
something like that.
Yeah, I called it main.js.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
And a lot of this is gonna
feel pretty similar.
I'll go ahead and
code this along with you.
But like really wouldn't be too
ill served by just copying and
pasting this as well if
you don't want to do it.
Modelcontext/sdk/server/mcp.js and
we're gonna import stdioServerTransport
from
@modelcontextprotocol/sdk/server/stdio.js.
We need to get an import SQLite 3 as well.
So you have to go install that.
>> Brian Holt: Import path from path and
import file to URLPath from URL, okay?
I'm just going to check
what version of MCP.
This one, 517.
Okay, so in here we're going to say npm
install SQLite 3@blah5.1.7 as well.
>> Brian Holt: So I chose SQLite here.
It's funny because I work at
a postgres company, right?
But it's really easy to just
do all this stuff locally.
Okay, so we're here in main.
Keep going.
From here we're going to say const
server equals new MCP server.
We'll call this one like
the issue server name
issue server and the version will be 1.0.
And then here last time we were
saying register tool, right?
Server.register, but
we're going to do register resource.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then we're gonna
give it a title of Database Schema.
One thing, if you ask like Claude
code to generate this for you,
which certainly was how I started,
it's almost always going to generate for
you a resource template, because that is
generally the better way of doing this.
However, Claude desktop
doesn't support it, right?
Neither does Tome, right?
And so it's like Whack a mole game
of what are my tools support?
What does my client support?
What am I trying to support?
So in this particular case, we have to
do it with just a normal resource, okay?
Then you have to give it this schema.
This is a protocol.
I'm calling the schema cuz
it's the database schema, but
you could call this whatever, right?
It's just whatever you choose
to call it the protocol.
Because this is how internally it's going
to refer to as this like unique identifier
of like, on this protocol, I can access
these particular resources, right?
It's treating it like a URL essentially.
So there's nothing magical
about the word schema here,
I just wanted it to be
very clear about that.
And then I'm just gonna give it
this schema for the database.
We're not going to give
it any additional URL, so
it's actually really nonsensical
what we choose to call it here.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and then we're
gonna say the title is Database Schema.
The description is SQLite schema for
the issues database.
And the MIME type is text/plain,
which is just like you're telling
the LM how to interpret it.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
then we're going to say async, and
here we're just going to do
the actual whatever we want to do.
In our case, we're just going to request
from the database what we actually want.
So, here we're gonna say const
db = new sqlite3.Database and
we're gonna give it the dbPath.
Did I do all that magic?
No, we'll do that up
here in just a second and
we'll do sqlite3.open readonly.
So we were talking about this earlier,
not that this really matters here,
because the LLM won't
really have access to this.
But generally speaking,
when you're working with agents and LLMs,
if it should only be read only, please
mark your connections as being read only.
So now if for whatever reason this
gets like repurposed to be a tool or
something like that, where, the LLM could
have more influence of how this is used,
or you're passing an SQL or something like
that, you're still stuck in read only
mode, which is just good for
not dropping databases.
Let's go define DBPath up here,
because I did not do that yet.
>> Brian Holt: I've written so much note
over the years that I'm just used to
dirname being available, but
it's not available in ES modules, so
you have to write this special
ritual incantation to make it work.
Or normally I just ask, why is this
on son of four, okay, there we go.
Normally I just ask my agent to do it for
me.
So define_dir name for
an es module file.
Because I can never
remember how to do this,
but it's like the same
thing every single time.
It's exactly this.
Const file name = file to path,
which is why we imported that up there.
And then const_dirname =
path.dirname(-- file name).
And now this is dirname as it would
be defined in a common JS module.
If none of that makes any sense to you,
just don't worry about it.
Bless you, sweet child,
that you never have to know this, [LAUGH].
Okay, so now dbpath is.
And we still have to define
what dbpath is, right?
Where do I define what DBPATH is?
Yeah, right there.
Okay, const dbPath is
assigned path.join(--dirname,
..backend, database.sqlite.
We're in this MyMCP directory we want.
In the backend, there's this database
file that we want to reference.
So it is the dirname, which is where
this is being run up one directory in
the backend directory, database.sqlite.
Okay, and
then we're going to use this DB but
we want to wrap this all in a promise
just so that this all resolves correctly.
So we're just going to do that.
I think that's going to be
much easier if we do this.
Const schema equals await,
new promise, resolve, reject.
Okay, and then I'm just going
to move this DB column to here,
inside of this schema
promise that we just created.
And because we're awaiting this promise
here, and this is an async file,
everything should just work out, right?
Whatever this ends up
returning should work.
And this probably should be an async.
Is it?
No, no, stop.
Okay, we're going to say db.all, and
we're just going to write a query to
say select SQL from SQLite master.
This is a little SQLite Blackmagic
where type equals table and
SQL is not null, order by name.
Oops, other way around,
order by name, there we go.
This is the way that you just dump all
the schema out of a SQLite database.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, it's gonna do that.
It'll give you a callback error rows and
then you say db.close
because we're done with it.
If error, reject, error.
>> Brian Holt: I guess
let's be less clever about
this else, resolve rows.map.
>> Brian Holt: Again,
we're kinda just formatting this to
make it a little bit easier for
the agent to read or the LLM.
>> Brian Holt: And row.sql.
>> Brian Holt: And then here we will
join with a new line character.
Where am I messed up here?
>> Speaker 2: It's up on line 17 or
something, 16.
>> Brian Holt: All right, there.
>> Brian Holt: That's-
>> Speaker 2: Should just be a string.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
it should just be a string, right?
Database schema.
That's really what I wanted to hear.
Just something like this, yep.
>> Brian Holt: So, this is a little
opaque here, but essentially this
line is going to dump the entire
schema from the database.
If there's an error, it'll call reject,
which will fail the entire promise here,
this promise.
Otherwise it's just going
to format this nicely so
it can be given back to the agent.
That's the entire thing.
>> Brian Holt: Not a database class, so
I'm not gonna dwell too much on this.
And again, feel free to just copy and
paste that if that's too opaque for you.
All right, so at the end of this,
this is being called resolve
with that string, right?
So then schema here will be the results of
whatever resolved is called with, right?
So now schema is that string, make sense?
Or if it's not, then there was an error
and it rejects and everything blows up and
everybody dies, it's fine.
Okay, so now at the end here,
we're gonna call return, and
it's gonna have contents.
This should look very familiar
from what we did last time.
And it's gonna have essentially a URI: so
again, the URI is this up here,
and it's letting Claude
know how it can cache this.
So it'll just be this, right?
It'll cache it with that as the cache key.
>> Brian Holt: MimeType
as being text/plain,
and then text will be schema, okay?
Const transport = new
standard IO transport and
await server connect transport,
which we did that before,
so this should feel pretty familiar.
Okay, good so far?
So this takes this entire
database right here.
Obviously, I can't open it
cuz it's a SQLite file.
I probably can open it,
I think I have an extension.
Anyway, it doesn't matter,
it's just a big SQLite database with
a bunch of issues being tracked in it.
And then it's dumping that out and
returning as a resource.